Updating docs for Che 6 configuration to Che 7 devfile migration. (#796)
codenvy/che-docs: src/main/pages/che-7/end-user-guide/proc_converting-a-che-6-workspace-to-a-basic-che-7-devfile.adoc

[id="converting-a-che-6-workspace-to-a-basic-che-7-devfile_{context}"]
= Converting a Che 6 workspace to a basic Che 7 devfile

This section describes how to convert a Che 6 workspace to a Che 7 devfile. The result is a basic Che 7 devfile that can be used for further workspace creation.

.Procedure

To convert a Che 6 workspace to a Che 7 devfile:

> . Open an old Che 6 configuration file in order to identify which Che 6 stack is used in the workspace. Below there is a detailed guide for  <<accessing-che-6-workspace-configuration_{context}>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Open an old Che 6 configuration file to identify which Che 6 stack is used in the workspace. Below, there is a detailed guide for  <<accessing-che-6-workspace-configuration_{context}>>.
```

| Python, +
Python with Theia IDE
| Python

| Eclipse Vert.x
| Java Vert.x

| PHP
| PHP Simple

| Spring Boot
| Java Spring Boot
|===

> .. By default, the example project is added to the workspace. The default project can be removed by clicking the *Remove* button:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. By default, the example project is added to the workspace. To remove the default project, click the btn:[Remove] button:
```

+
image::workspaces/remove-default-project.png[link="{imagesdir}/workspaces/remove-default-project.png"]

> .. One can import a custom project that was used in Che 6 workspace by clicking the *Add or Import Project* and selecting *Git* or *Github* options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. To import a custom project that was used in Che 6 workspace, click the *Add or Import Project* and select *Git* or *GitHub* options:
```

Author: Reading that again, shouldn't there be `*Git* or *GitHub* option` instead of options?

Reviewer: @Katka92, yes, you're right. It should be:

`...and select the *Git* or *GitHub* option`

+
image::workspaces/add-custom-project.png[link="{imagesdir}/workspaces/add-custom-project.png"]

> .. Once the project is imported, various commands could be added to the devfile e.g `run`, `build`, `test`. Those commands will be later accessible from the IDE once the workspace is started. Custom commands and other devfile components can be added in the *Devfile* configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Various commands can be added to devfiles of imported projects, for example, `run`, `build`, and  `test`. The commands are then accessible from the IDE when a workspace is started. Custom commands and other devfile components can be added in the *Devfile* configuration.
```

> .. Select the *Create & Proceed Editing* button. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Click the btn:[Create & Proceed Editing] button. 
```

+
image::workspaces/create-and-edit.png[link="{imagesdir}/workspaces/create-and-edit.png"]
+

> Select the *Devfile* tab in order to update the configuration. See the link:https://redhat-developer.github.io/devfile/devfile[Devfile specification] for the detailed information about the supported properties and attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the *Devfile* tab to update the configuration. See the link:https://redhat-developer.github.io/devfile/devfile[Devfile specification] for detailed information about supported properties and attributes.
```

> Select the *Devfile* tab in order to update the configuration. See the link:https://redhat-developer.github.io/devfile/devfile[Devfile specification] for the detailed information about the supported properties and attributes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the *Devfile* tab in order to update the configuration. Machine servers in Che 6 workspaces can be specified as components endpoints in a Devfile. And Che 6 installers as components of type chePlugin. See the link:https://redhat-developer.github.io/devfile/devfile[Devfile specification] for the detailed information about the supported properties and attributes.
```

Author: I can not Commit suggestion, maybe that's because it's marked as Outdated. I'll add that in my commit. Thank you!

+
image::workspaces/update-devfile-configuration.png[link="{imagesdir}/workspaces/update-devfile-configuration.png"]

> .. Once the *Devfile* configuration setup is finished, press the *Open* button in order to start a newly created Che 7 workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Once the *Devfile* configuration is completed, click the btn:[Open] button to start a newly created Che 7 workspace.
```

> .. Once the *Devfile* configuration setup is finished, press the *Open* button in order to start a newly created Che 7 workspace.

Reviewer 2: Something that may be helpful to mention is that machine `servers` in workspace configs can be specified as devfile components `endpoints` and `installers` as components of type `chePlugin`.

Author: @l0rd @ibuziuk I'm not much familiar with that so I'm not sure I'm able to document that properly. Could one of you create a suggestion that I could merge please?

Reviewer 2: I have added a short suggestion. That's not much but better than nothing ;-)

| Python, +
Python with Theia IDE
| Python

| Eclipse Vert.x
| Java Vert.x

| PHP
| PHP Simple

| Spring Boot
| Java Spring Boot
|===

> .. By default the example project is added to your workspace. You can remove it by cliclik a *Remove* button.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. By default the example project is added to your workspace. You can remove it by clicking a *Remove* button.
```

+
image::workspaces/remove-default-project.png[link="{imagesdir}/workspaces/remove-default-project.png"]

> .. You can import your own project. Click *Add or Import Project*, select Git or Github option and import your project.

Reviewer 3: After importing the project it is necessary to also update the default commands, currently (e.g. the `java-maven` commands are written for `console-java-simple` and have hardcoded project path). Perhaps a few lines mentioning this would be helpful

Author: When I remove a default workspace, default commands are removed too. I've added note about that to the docs. Thank you!

| Java Spring Boot
|===

.. By default, the example project is added to the workspace. The default project can be removed by clicking the *Remove* button:
+
image::workspaces/remove-default-project.png[link="{imagesdir}/workspaces/remove-default-project.png"]

> .. One can import a custom project that was used in Che 6 workspace by clicking the *Add or Import Project* and select *Git* or *Github* options:

Author: I'm not sure, but maybe ` by clicking and selectING` would be better?

Reviewer 4: sure thing, nice catch ;-)

+
image::workspaces/add-custom-project.png[link="{imagesdir}/workspaces/add-custom-project.png"]

> .. Once the project is imported, various commands could be added to the devfile e.g `run`, `build`, `test`. Those commands will be later accessible from the IDE once the workspace is started. Custom commands and other devfile components can be added in the *Devfile* configuration:

Author: Is the ` : ` at the end intentional?

Reviewer 4: yeah, it was sorta intentional, but now I think that '.' is better
